[Music]
who doesn't know the legendary Dragon
Bruce Lee apart from his proficiency in
martial arts his incredible physique was
one of the staples of Lee success as an
actor in fighter and his rock-hard abs
are perhaps the most prominent feature
of his ripped body but what did he do to
achieve this result and is everyone
capable of doing that well let's see in
fact Bruce Lee trained extremely hard
and led an almost ascetic lifestyle full
of sacrifice it was one of the things
that made him an icon for millions of
people if you're not aspiring to become
a living legend you don't have to follow
his example to the letter but if you're
looking for the perfect six-pack then
Bruce Lee's training schedule is
probably the best there is just look at
his abs and you'll see what I mean and
if you think it takes some hardcore
regiment think again Bruce Lee is just
five simple exercises his main secret
was the number of reps he did the count
went to hundreds and sometimes even
thousands it takes a lot of stamina and
strength not to mention the dedication
he put into making his body perfect but
his choice of exercises wasn't random in
the least Lee did lots of research and
after a while he compiled the perfect
training routine that would give him the
most effective muscle shield both to
make him stronger and protect him from
blows ripped and visually appealing body
was just a positive side effect today
we're only going to talk about abs
though but if you want a video about
bruce lee's whole body training routine
let me know down in the comments I'll be
happy to tell you about it so here they
are the five core exercises that the
legendary martial artist and philosopher
considered the worthy of his attention
when training his abdominals number one
advanced sit ups sit ups ound like
something basic but hey I did tell you
it was all nothing special didn't I the
way Bruce Lee performed them though was
a little different from your regular
sit-ups so have a good look
first let's recall how to do a regular
sit-up just in case lie down on your
back and put your hands behind your head
with your legs bent at the knee plant
your feet firmly on the floor then raise
your upper body trying to reach your
knees with your chest and after that
slowly return to the initial position
don't forget to exhale on the way up and
inhale on the way down just don't hold
your breath for Bruce Lee's variation of
sit ups you'll need either a sit-up
bench or an abdominal Fitness board the
process is basically the same only here
you'll need to secure your legs on top
of the bench or board with knees
slightly bent
The Sharper the incline of your body
well on the bench the more effective the
exercise moving upwards try to touch
your chest to your knees every time then
hold the ABS contracted for a couple of
seconds and slowly return to the initial
position yet there are even more
advanced ways to do this exercise and
Lee said that adding new elements to
regular sit-ups boosts their
effectiveness one of the best additional
elements is twisting your core for that
when moving up with your hands behind
your head twist the torso and touch one
of your elbows to the opposite knee then
repeat with the other elbow switching
them with each rep sit-ups are a single
target exercise that engages your upper
abdominals and intercostals the next one
will let them rest while beating the
heck out of your lower abs number two
advanced leg raises again a basic enough
exercise that is ingenious in its
simplicity for better performance you
might need a flat bench but if you don't
have one the floor will do lie on the
floor with your arms along your body if
you use a flat bench lie on it and
secure yourself by holding the edges of
the bench with your hands now as the
name of the exercise suggests raise your
straight legs up until your feet are
pointing at the ceiling make sure you
don't work with your pelvis or hips
it's your lower abs that should do the
work
hold the top position for a second or
two and lower your legs back down don't
let your heels touch the floor though
let them hang an inch above it this will
further engage your core and lower apps
if you're looking for a more advanced
version of leg raises and one that Bruce
Lee preferred for that matter you're
going to need a chin up bar find one and
hang on it with your legs straight now
lift them up to the 90 degree angle
engaging your lower abs and lower back
down all in a slow and controlled way
hold yourself firmly on the bar and
don't let your body wiggle when lifting
your legs three core twists finally
something you don't see in every workout
textbook core twists work miracles when
it comes to training your obliques and
making your waist thin and wiry you'll
need a light weighted bar or just a long
stick for this exercise take the bar and
put it across your shoulders behind your
neck grip either end of the bar firmly
with your hands and lean your upper body
forward ideally you should stand at a 90
degree angle don't bend your waist or
you risk damaging your lower back now
twist your upper body to the right
reaching the left end of the bar to your
right foot if you don't manage it on the
first try don't worry it just means your
core isn't that flexible yet you'll do
better with time without any pause
twists your core to the left and repeat
the same motion to the other side don't
straighten up until you're finished with
your current set number four advance
frog legs
I mean kicks no I'm not just adding
advance to every exercise to make a look
cooler
it's how they work frog kicks are
another exercise that targets your lower
abs
giving you that six-pack you desire for
regular frog kicks sit on the floor with
your legs slightly bent at the knees put
your hands on the floor to your sides
and a bit behind you fingers looking
forward lean back and balancing on your
pelvis raise your bent legs now move
your knees to your chest
meeting them halfway and straighten your
legs again without touching your heels
to the floor advanced Bruce Lee's
version of this exercise looks like this
hang on a chin-up bar straining your
arms to hold you still bend your knees
and use your lower abs to pull them to
your chest or at least as high as you
can if you're a beginner it's best to
start with regular frog kicks switching
to advanced ones when you're ready 5
side bends the last exercise on this
list targets the outer lining of your
abdominals making your obliques work
like there's no tomorrow you'll need a
couple of dumbbells here no I'm not
available grab one in either hand and
stand straight feet shoulder-width apart
hold your arms slightly tense hanging at
your hips bend your upper body to the
right until you feel some tension in
your side hold this position for a
second or two and go back up then repeat
the motion to the left so here's your
Bruce Lee abs workout look simple but
there are things you need to know that
will probably make you think twice about
that first like I said earlier Lee's
main focus was on the number of
repetitions for each exercise he did
four sets of 50 reps totaling 200 reps
for a single exercise and a full
thousand for the 5 of them sounds
painstaking to me if you're at the very
beginning of your way to the top shape
you shouldn't even try it though start
with as many reps as you can
performing each set until exhaustion and
taking a minute of rest between sets
also as intense as it all may sound the
key to well-developed abs is not to
overwork them but to let them grow
naturally don't strain your muscles too
hard when you're at your limit instead
go for fewer reps with every following
set believe me despite the initial
frustration you might feel you won't be
disappointed with your results later
finally and every of
dominoe workout with a set of static
muscle contractions stand straight and
squeeze your abs hold them for a couple
of seconds and release repeated about 20
times
static abdominal contractions are like
stretching for your other muscles they
allow the ABS to relax and become more
defined faster it's no secret that
muscles require rest to grow and abs are
of course no exception and finally
complement your training routine with a
balanced diet and aerobic exercise you
may develop rock-hard abs but if you
want them to be clearly seen you need to
get rid of a layer of excess fat
covering up and what better to burn fat
than running or swimming
working out is a complex process and you
can't achieve good results without
following the rules good luck now would
you like to add something I didn't
mention about Bruce Lee's training
routine let me know down in the comments
if you learn something new today then
give this video a like and share it with
a friend but hey don't flex your abs
just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy abs be seeing you next time on the
bright side of life